SQL – Case Studies – Loans and Credit Card Profiling Cases
Instructions:
Please work on the following cases.
A) Help a small bank manage its loan portfolio and applications. To manage their business well, they need to able to track all the loan applications they receive from their
customers. After analyzing the bank’s lending business, you’ve observed that a customer can apply for multiple loans in his / her time with the firm. You’ve decided to
create two tables that would help this firm manage the loan applications: Customer table and Loan table.
Import the table data from the enclosed dataset – Loans_dataset containing two tables: Customers and Loans
(How to import data using MySQL Workbench? Open MySQL Workbench, establish connection with the local instance MySQL server, then create a new database using
Create Database loans_database, then, right click on tables in the newly created loans_database, select Table Data Import wizard, and follow on-screen prompts)
Once you’ve created the database and imported the tables, please help the bank’s senior credit risk officer find answer to these business questions:


1. Find the list of the applicants who are eligible for loan.
[Eligibility criteria: Must have credit history and income should be greater than 10,000]

2. Categorize the customers into “High Value Customer” and “Low Value Customer”.
[High value customer: Have credit history and income greater than 8000, else low value customer]

3. Find the customers who neither have any credit history nor applied for a loan.

4. List the customers who have dependents and credit history but with rejected loans.

5. Customers&#39; complete details along with the details of the loans they have applied for.

6. Find the top 5 female and male customers in terms of the income. Also, show their ranks as a separate column.



B) Create a new database import the following tables from CreditCard Profiling Dataset: cc_profile, customer_region, region.
Once you have imported the tables, please answer the following business questions:

1. Customers&#39; names and the city they live in.

2. Find the list of married customers from midwest and south regions.

3. Find the region-wise list of customers, their age, and the fraud level.

Page 2 of 2

4. How many cities the customers live in?

5. Show all the customers from MidWest if there are any female customers in MidWest with salary more than 700,000.

6. List the total number of total number of customers in each city.

7. Show only those cities with at least 400 customers.

8. List the top 5 cities with highest income customers.

9. List the average salary of female customers in different regions. Hint: Use Avg() function after grouping

10. List the number of customers from each region and city.